## Key Takeways

## Machine Learning
Machine learning is teaching a computer to work and solve a task automatically using given data.

How machine learning become important or needed
Initially every single things was handled by Human himself, like given an input convert it to desired output
Then came programming, where human can write a program, which take input and give output. But even with programming there were task or areas where programming was not sufficient or convient. Like Face recognition
Then came Machine learning where a computer can do task which were hard or possible for human and programming. In machine learning we provide computer lots of data related to problem we want to solve and it analysis those data and then make predict for new unseen data.

Applications of Machine Leanring
1. Face Recognition
2. Weather redar
3. Recommendation system
4. Artifical Voice assistants like Alexa and Siri
5. Robots etc

**Data** - 

Collection of vectors. It can be anything as table of entries with row and column, pdf, image, video, etc.

**Model** - 

It is mathematical simplification of reality. All models are wrong but some are useful - George Box.

Eg. Ideal Gas Model, Inverse sqaured law of gravitational attraction, Moore's law for semiconductors. 

It is tool used in Machine learning.

#### Types of models
1. Predictive Model
    1. ***Classification Model*** - based on given variables, predict a discrete value for each observation. Like Yes/No, True/False, 1/0, categorical value.
    2. ***Regression Model*** - based on given different variable data, predict numeric value for each observation. Like Predict Price of house based number of rooms, area and locality.
2. Probabilistics Model - It is not for making predictions, but find likelihood of any event occurance, probability of randomly selected event.

**Learning Algorithms** - 

Learning algorithm: Data --> Model. 

Choose from collections of models with same structure but different parameters.

Use data to get ***best*** parameters.

            Human         
              |
           Learning Algorithms <--  Data
              |
    Input --> Model --> Output

## Supervising Learning
### 1. Regression

Regression is supervised machine learning model. 

    Training data: {(x1, y1), (x2, y2), ....(xn, yn)}

    xi E R^d, yi = R

    Algorithms output f: R^d --> R

    Loss function = 1 / n (Summation i = 1 to n (f(xi) - yi)^2)

    f(x) = W^T * x + b = (Summation j = 1 to d (wj*xj)) + b

### 2. Classfication

Classification is also supervised machine learning model.

    Training data: {(x1, y1), (x2, y2), ....(xn, yn)}

    xi E R^d, yi = {-1, +1}

    Algorithms output f: R^d --> {-1, +1}

    Loss function = 1 / n (Summation i = 1 to n)(f(xi) != yi)

    f(x) = sign(w^T * x + b)

## Unsupervised Learning
Unsupervised learning is understanding a data. Build a model that compare, explain and group data

    Data = {x1, x2, ....., xn}
    xi E R^d

### 1. Dimension Reduction
Dimension Reduction do compression and simplification.

    Data = {x1, x2, ....., xn}
    xi E R^d
    Encoder f: R^d --> R^d`
    Decoder g: R^d`--> R^d
    Goal: g(f(xi)) ~~ xi
    Loss function = 1 / n(Summation i = 1 to n) || g(f(xi) - xi) ||^2

### 2. Density Estimation

Density Estimation model take several samples from random sources, and outputs a model that assign probability score to every possible instances.

        Data = {x1, x2, ....., xn}
        xi E R^d
        Probability mapping: P: R^d --> R+, that sums to 1
        Goal: P(x) is large if x E Data, low otherwise
        Loss function = 1 / n (Summation i = 1 to n)(-log(P(xi)))