# Key Takeways

1. Two type of Numerical Data
    1. Discrete - countable data, as whole no intermediate value in between - like 4, 8, 5,.In Chart each column is separate not connected to other columns - 1, 2, 3
    2. Continuous - infinite data as exist intermediate values in between - like 5.4, 3.5. In Chart columns are connected - 30-40, 40-50
2. Central Tendency for Numerical Data
    1. Mode, Median and Mean. How they affect by Outliers. Mean is most affected one. Adding or Multiplying constant changes these central tendencies
    2. Range - Difference between Maximum and Minimum. Also affected by outliers.
    3. Variance - To find dispersion of datapoints and compare different datasets. Dispersion from central tendency - (xi - u). But to find variance, we square dispersion and take summation of squared dispersion and divide by total number of observation(N), for sample variance divide by (n - 1). Adding constant does not affect variance but multiplying constant changes variance to constant square old variance.
    4. Standard Deviation - Numerical data has Unit associated with them like kg, cm and central tendency have same unit, but for variance this unit get squared, to overcome, this we use Standard deviation. It is squared root of variance. No affect of adding constant and multiply constant changes to constant by old Standard deviaton.
    5. Percentile 

        a. 100p, if np is not an integer then find smallest integer greater than np. 
        b. Percentile is data value positioned at that integer value. If np is an integer then Percentile is data value at average of value at np and np+1.
        c. 25th Percentile is First Quartile. 50th Percentile is Second Quartile or Median. 75th is Third Quartile.
        d. Inter Quartile Range (IQR) - Q3 - Q1
3. Stem and Leaf - Way of arrange data points, in a stem put first digit and second digit in leaf.

4. To find association between Two Categorical Varible, we used Contingency Table.
    1. Contains row and columns - and they have Row/Column Relative Frequency which is used to find association between two variables.
    2. If Row/Column Relative Frequency is almost same for each row/column then two variables are not associated. If row/column relative frequency is different then their is association between those two categorical variables.
    3. Stacked Bar Charts are used to show this association between twp categorical variables.
5. To find association between to two Numerical variables, we use Scatterplot.
    1. X-axis of scatterplot is explanatory variable and Y-axis is responsive variable. Eg. As age increase, if height also increase, then age is explanatory and height is responsive.
    2. To describe association we use these for measures

        a. Direction
        b. Curravature
        c. Variation
        d. Outliers
    3. Measure of Association

        a. Covariance
        b. Correlation

    ### Covariance:- 
    1. Covariance is Summation of product of x deviation(xi-ux) and y deviation (yi - uy) divided by total number for observations N for population and (n - 1) for sample. Unit of covariance is x unit * y unit
    2. If large/small value of x deviation is associated with large/small value of y deviation then sign of product is same.
    3. If large/small value of x deviation is associated with small/large value of y deviation then sign of product is different.

    ### Correlation:- 
    1. Correlation(r) is Covariance of x and y divided by Product of Standard deviation x and Standard Deviation of y. 
    2. No unit for correlation as it cancel out. 
    3. Value range for r is between -1 and +1.

       r between -1 to -0.75 = Strong Negative Association.

       r between -0.75 to -0.50 = Reasonal Neg. Association

       r between -0.50 to -0.25 = Weak Neg. Association

       r between -0.25 to 0.25 = No Association

       r between 0.25 to 0.50 = Weak Positive Association

       r between 0.50 to 0.75 = Reasonal Positive Association

       r between 0.75 to 1 = Strong Positive Association
    
    ### Fitting a line:-
    1. Find a equation of line fitting on scatterplot.
    2. R^2 = Goodness of fit of the line to the dataset. Value between 0 to 1
    3. Equation: Response variable = Slope * Explanatory Variable + Constant
6. Association between Categorical and Numerical Variables
    1. Use scatter plot
    2. Convert categorical variable into numerical value
    3. Point Bi-serial Correlation Coefficient used for summarisation.
    
    rpb = (( mean of group 1 - mean of group 2 ) / standard deviation of numerical variable) * square root of product of proportion of observation with group1  * proportion of observation with group2
