## Key Takeways

### Hypothesis Testing
Using samples to decide between Null hypothesis and Alternative hypothesis.

Ho: Null Hypothesis;

HA: Alternative Hypothesis


#### Acceptance set and test
x1, x2, ...., xn ~ iid X
Subset A of X^n <--> a hypothesis test
if x1, x2, ....., xn E A, we accept Ho, otherwise reject Ho

#### Metric for Hypothesis testing

**Size and Power of a test**
1. Metric 1: Significance Level - also called size, of a test, denoted by ð›¼
    
        Type I error: Reject Ho when Ho is true

        ð›¼ = P(Type I error) = P(Reject Ho | Ho is true)

2. Metric 2: Power of test, 1 - Î²

        Type || error: Accept Ho when HA is true
        Î² = P(Type || error)  = P(Accept Ho | HA is true)
        Power = 1 - Î² = P(Reject Ho | HA is true)

Above is paradigm of hypothesis testing is by Nayman and Pearson

### Types of Hypothesis testing
1. Simple hypothesis - A hypothesis that is completely specifies distribution of the samples is called Simple hypothesis.
2. Composite hypothesis - A hypothesis that does not completely specifies distribution of the samples is called Composite hypothesis.

Example: Coin toss

-> Null hypothesis: P(heads) = 0.5 (Coin is fair) --- Simple

-> Alternative: P(Heads) != 0.5 (Coin is unfair) --- Composite

### z-test
Test Statistic, denoted by T

-> some functions of samples

-> sample mean x bar, sample variance S^2

Acceptance and rejection regions are specified through T

Eg. 

    1. Reject Ho if T > c (right)
    2. Reject Ho if T < -c (left)
    3. Reject Ho if |T| > c (two sided)

Significance level ð›¼ depends on c and the distribution of T | Ho

-> Right Sided: ð›¼ = P(T > c | Ho)

-> Fix ð›¼ and find c

Testing for mean (normal samples, known variance)
Reject Ho: T > mean + c or T < mean - c

### P-value
Suppose the test statistic T=t in one sampling. The lowest significance level ð›¼ at which the Null hypothesis will be rejected for T=t(Critical value) is called P-value of the sampling.

#### What to choose ? Significance level or P-value
Step-1: Decide on null and alternative hypothesis

Step-2: Decide on test statistic T

Step-3: ""Philosophy"" of testing
    
    Choice-1: Pick Signifance level first
    Probability of Type | error can be fixed in some applications. In those case, significance level is easy to fix.
    In many applications, 0.05 or 0.01 is accepted as commpn significance level
    Find rejection region ( find the critical value c abd reject Ho if T > c)

    Choice-2: Pick P-value
    Report the P-value
    If P-value is low enough, choose to reject Ho; otherwise accept HA.
    How low is low enough? Depends on applications and other information.
